Due to the recent emergence of COVID pandemic, there has been a need to immediate changes in the way organisations operate. Since it’s a contagious disease, contact tracking has become an important aspect of its monitor and control. Unlike workplace, Universities are areas which are accessed by thousands of individuals each
day without any particular pattern. Hence, It has become extremely important from educational institutions point of view to control the flow of individuals to campus locations through monitoring systems. The allowance should depend on their health status and the criticality factor. Overall, deriving these statistics and actively monitoring them becomes an extremely important task to control the spread of the disease and maintain wellbeing of every individual.

The proposed database design is a copy of “USF Archivum Return to Campus” with minor tweaks to ensure all the data required for analysis is gathered. It intends to collect campus visit details, checks for various COVID symptoms and finally issues a pass if there is no risk associated with the individual’s health condition. The primary focus has been on creating and implementing the full normalised database design including all the constrains to ensure there is no data redundancy, protection against inconsistent data (submission of blank values). The central table, Visit has been loaded with 15000 records to have diverse classification, this flows to all the other linked tables which use the same Primary Key. An SQL file has been created for DDL statements and a CSV file for data (attached to appendix section) for the purposes of easy migration/re-use in other connections.

For performance tuning experiments we have created a visit test table and demonstrated how using indexing, selectivity indexing, point queries and execution plan
effectively reduces the cost and time. We also experimented with parallel execution and partitioning of visit table by month showing decrease in response times.
